# ElectionIOs
A repository for my 2020 seminar capstone paper, Ad Captandum: The Efficacy of Information Operations on Electoral Interference

## Abstract
Globally, foreign Information Operations (IO) with the goal to disrupt local and national elections have drastically increased, creating new challenges for the privacy and national security landscape. Utilizing social media companies as their main vector for distribution, foreign information operations misinformed and biased popular opinion through sharing by state-sponsored news organizations. In the aftermath of the 2016 US Election's Special Counsel investigation, Russia had definitively US voters through a strategy built by disinformation and social media campaigns to cause social discord. As a main takeaway, there have been increasing efforts from social media companies to staunch the rate of foreign involvement in electoral manipulation. In doing so, these companies have begun culling the tide of fake and state sponsored accounts. This paper provides a comprehensive analysis of the differing strategies state actors use for their information operations. Using political transparency information data sets, this paper aims to explore whether there is a statistical correlation between when an account becomes "active" and when it is removed from Twitter. In this study, I explore publicly released banned accounts data from Twitter’s Transparency Report on Russia, China, and Iran IO accounts during the period before the 2016 US election to the present day. The strategies examined include account dormancy, hashtag and follow usage, and geotagging as main strategies employed to interfere directly with target audiences. In determining which strategies were effectively deployed, I found that my hypotheses for following metrics and geotagging ranked high as tactics for either increasing social media spread. However, increasing IO account dormancy to obfuscate themselves from a censor was proven statistically insignificant, and did not play a large factor in intervention strategy.

